♪ [music] ♪
Let's talk about one of the fundamental
concepts behind Express,
it is routing. And this will happen in any
application that you're working on.
Essentially, when people go to a URL, you
need to do stuff. You need to query the
database, you need to filter through a
list of stores, you need to modify that
data in some way, and finally, once you
have all of the data that you want to send
to the user, you send it to them. So the
way that the router works in Express is
that you...first you import Express, then
you grab the router off of Express,
that's how we've done it here. We'll talk
more about these importing and exporting
in future videos. And then you go ahead
and define all of your routes. Now,
I'm defining all of our routes in
index.js, and you can see that we're using
those routes because if we go and look for
index, here we go, const routes = require,
here what we're doing is we're importing
our routes from this file here and we're
exporting the router from there. And then
we go ahead and tell Express to use that
right here.
So we say, anytime someone goes
to "/anything" then we will hit this route
file and the route file here is going to
handle every single URL hit that we get.
Now you could have multiple route handlers
here, you could have a second one.
Sometimes I'll do a
second file for admin
and I'll make that like
admin routes, and then any
routes that go to "/admin" "/anything"
we'll handle in that separate router. But
here, we're going to do it all in one file
here. And this is how the router works,
you get the URL and then you have a
callback function that will run whenever
somebody visits that specific URL. That
function is going to give you three
things. The request, which is an object
full of information that's coming in,
you have a response, which is an object
full of methods for sending data back to
the user. And then we have a third one
that's going to be called next and we're
going to review that in our
middleware file because it's possible that
you do not want to send data back at this
route or you just want to sort of pass it
off to somebody else to handle.
So here we have our function here. If
you've never seen this,
this is just a normal function but I've
swapped it out with an arrow function. But
if you've taken the ES6 class, you know
all about that. And then we immediately
just send back, "Hey, it works." But we
can do a lot more work in here,
you can console.log, "Hey!!!"
Now, when you refresh this,
it's still the same, but if we were to go
to our terminal here, you'll see that we
have console.logged, "Hey!!!"
So that means that anytime you
console.log inside of an Express
application, you're going to see
it in your actual terminal here,
so we see, "Hey!!!"
Now, what can we do with
this? Obviously, we can do "request.send",
send is one of the methods that we can
possibly use to send data.
And we can also use it to send JSON back,
so let's say you have an object,
so "const wes =" you have
a name, it's Wes,
age is 100, cool is a
billion of true. And I want to send
that data back as JSON because maybe we're
making a cool API. So what we do is we
take that variable, we comment out this
request.send. So make sure that you're
never trying to send data
more than once. So if I
was going to say request
and the method we
want here is JSON, res.json(wes). Now
we're trying to send data twice and you're
going to get an error that says, "Headers
are already sent," because you've already
sent the request.
So if you ever get that error,
that's because you've tried to send data
to the browser twice. So take that
one out. We're going to JSON that. And
now when you refresh, you'll see that the
browser has sent us back and it's
populated all the correct headers and
everything and it's formatted it as
actual JSON.
I'm using a little Chrome plugin here,
JSON Formatter, to highlight my JavaScript
but it has been pushed as JSON, which
we're going to do a lot in this course,
we're going to be able to push out data as
JSON and then on the client-side we're
going to be able to use AJAX
to request that actual data.
So request.send and request.json are the
two most basic ones, but we can also do a
little bit more here where we can pull in
data from the URL. So let's say we are on
this URL here and it had some query
parameters like name=wes, ampersand,
age=100, and I [inaudible] to hit Enter.
How do I get the data that's in the URL?
Well, that's part of the request, so
we can get that data by...let's comment
out this stuff again.
We could say request a
response.send, and the data is available
on "request.query.", and then the actual
parameter that we want. So, a name.
So let's see if we can get that, there we
go. So now because the name is Wes, it's
going to send Wes, and if I change that to
Kate, it's obviously going to change
to Kate.
You could also take the response.json
and simply just send back the data
immediately. So "request.query" is an
object full of all of the query parameters
and we just passed that directly to JSON.
So now any of the data that gets passed is
automatically just echoed back in JSON,
age=100, and cool=true. And you see that
we're just echoing the data back to it.
So that is a "request.query".
That gives us all of the data,
and the reason why we have
this query property on a request, is if
we head back to app.js, I said that we
would sort of like go back to this app.js
whenever we're using. You'll see online
27, 28-ish, you'll see bodyParser.json
and bodyParser.url in the code.
So what this is allowing us to do, this
is a concept called middleware which we're
going to run into in just a couple of
videos, and what that does is before we
even hit these routes right here, what
Express is going to do, is it's going to
check the URL and it's
going to check if anyone
has posted data from
like a form element
or something like that, and it's going to
sort of put all the data in the request so
we can easily access it via saying things
like request.query or request.body. Or
let's talk about a third one, which is
request.params. Let's make a new route
here, router.get, and let's just say
reverse/. Now, I want to make
an end point here where you hit a URL and
then you say "reverse/Wes" and it will
give you seW, it will reverse whatever
your name is. So how do we put variables
in a route? A way you do that is you put a
colon and then you put a name, and that's
going to give us a name variable on each
of our requests. So we can run a function
here, so we have our request, we have a
response, and from that, let's just test
that it's working. So we'll
say "response.send". It works.
Now we'll go to our URL here and our route
was /reverse/Wes, and it says it works,
good. Now, how do I access this part of
the URL, Wes? Well, that's stored in the
request, obviously, because, again, all of
the data about our request is stored in
the request variable and we can just try
to send it back immediately.
So res.params, because that
will be an object containing all of it.
You could have multiple, name,
last name, and cool, etc., etc., but
we just have name,
request.params.name.
Let's see if we can
send that back.
We've got a bit of an
error here, so if you ever
see this like it's not working, what that
means is that your Express application is
in the process of restarting. So if you
try to refresh too quickly, it means it
hasn't restarted totally.
But if it doesn't
restart ever, you have to go back to your
console here and see maybe there was a
syntax error or something like that, and
it will give you some
information about that
happening here.
So, refresh, it will tell
me Wes, I'll give it kait.
If I give it racecar,
you'll see that it's all working. Cool.
So what we could do is make a little end
point here that would simply take in a
name and reverse it. So it's a const
reverse =, and we're going to
split that string.
So req.params.name, we're going
to make that into an array. If you're
wondering what this is, check my ES6
videos. We are going to reverse that array
and then join it back together. So then we
take the reverse that we have here and
just send it,. So now if I type in Wes,
do we get seW? Yes, we do.
Type in kait. Tiak. I love you. uoy evol
I. Or racecar, it should still say
racecar.
Good. So we learned a couple things here.
Request has all the information,
response has all the methods for
sending data back, and we have
request.query to get the query
parameters, we have something called
request.body, which we'll be using for
posted parameters, and then we have a
request.params in order to access
the things that are in the URL.
All of the stuff is in the Express
documentation, so if you need to look it
up or you want to see what else there is,
go to the Express docs. In the sidebar,
you're going to see the request, the
response, and you can open that up.
You can see all the information, see, here
we go, they have a param called ID.
request.params.id. You can see, go
to response and you can see all the
different methods that live on response,
you know, open it up, here we go,
so request.json, jsonp, links, location,
redirect if you want to redirect someone
to a new page. Render, that's coming up in
the next video. You could send a file,
you could set a status, etc., etc. There's
all kinds of good stuff here, but in
general, you're going to be using
response.json and something called
response.render, which we're going to
hit in the next video.
♪ [music] ♪